# On the Testability of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Systems

The article addresses the need for efficient and comprehensive models in the scenario of machine learning systems already implemented and active. The authors point out the main obstacles to AI verification, as the lack of test oracles — a mechanism that determines whether an output agrees with an input — due to the fact that ML models are stochastic and non-deterministic in nature. The input sample is also considerably large, generating unrepresentative or very diverse data. The authors guided the study based on concepts that, if the system presented incorrect results, it would possibly harm the integrity of lives and also the environment.

An example of application that uses the techniques involved was also presented. A loan system for bank customers. This system receives the user's request, forwards it to the web framework, which forwards the input to the ML Model and also to a Test Monitor that will validate, among other characteristics, the integrity of these inputs, as well as the Model analysis parameters, finding inference flaws.

As mentioned the lack of oracle tests, the prototype uses the metamorphic test, which verifies expected relationships between the input and the possible output. The Test Monitor is also tasked with periodically performing analysis routines with past inputs and results with current ones, through a Logger maintained by the same. In this way, it is possible to see if the model is incorrectly varying its results. Furthermore, techniques for grouping inputs by common attributes are being tested to try to overcome the reported problem of the diverse sample of inputs.

The core of the work is the annotation of a catalog of tactics that ensure a continuous testing environment for an AI system. Where the nodes are divided into Supervision (monitoring behavior), Safe Exploration (monitoring the advance of prediction) and Robustness to Drift (application of the learning tatics in a different context by the model). Some testing strategies were listed for these nodes, however, the catalog is still being improved, as new approaches to these techniques are tested in the described model.
